README.md, before:

# revocation-grpc-plugin-server-go

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   subgraph AccelByte Gaming Services
   CL[gRPC Client]
   end
   subgraph Extend Override App
   SV["gRPC Server\n(you are here)"]
   end
   CL --- SV
```

`AccelByte Gaming Services`  features can be customized by using `Extend Override`
apps. An `Extend Override` app is essentially a `gRPC server` which contains one 
or more custom functions which can be called by `AccelByte Gaming Services` 
instead of the default functions. 

## Overview

This repository contains a sample `Extend Override` app for `revocation function`
written in `Go`. It provides a simple custom revocation function for platform 
service in `AccelByte Gaming Services`.

This sample app also shows the instrumentation setup necessary for observability. It
is required so that metrics, traces, and logs are able to flow properly when the 
app is deployed.

## Prerequisites

1. Windows 10 WSL2 or Linux Ubuntu 20.04 with the following tools installed.

   a. bash

   b. make

   c. docker v23.x

   d. go 1.19

   e. git

   f. [postman](https://www.postman.com/)

2. Access to `AccelByte Gaming Services` environment.

   a. Base URL
   
      - For `Starter` tier e.g.  https://spaceshooter.dev.gamingservices.accelbyte.io
      - For `Premium` tier e.g.  https://dev.accelbyte.io
      
   b. [Create a Game Namespace](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/tutorials/how-to/create-a-game-namespace/) if you don't have one yet. Keep the `Namespace ID`.

   c. [Create an OAuth Client](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/services/access/authorization/manage-access-control-for-applications/#create-an-iam-client) with confidential client type. Keep the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`.

## Setup

1. Create a docker compose `.env` file by copying the content of [.env.template](.env.template) file.

   > :warning: **The host OS environment variables have higher precedence compared to `.env` file variables**: If the variables in `.env` file do not seem to take effect properly, check if there are host OS environment variables with the same name. 
   See documentation about [docker compose environment variables precedence](https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/envvars-precedence/) for more details.

2. Fill in the required environment variables in `.env` file as shown below.

   ```
   AB_BASE_URL=https://demo.accelbyte.io     # Base URL of AccelByte Gaming Services environment
   AB_CLIENT_ID='xxxxxxxxxx'                 # Client ID from the Prerequisites section
   AB_CLIENT_SECRET='xxxxxxxxxx'             # Client Secret from the Prerequisites section
   AB_NAMESPACE='xxxxxxxxxx'                 # Namespace ID from the Prerequisites section
   PLUGIN_GRPC_SERVER_AUTH_ENABLED=false     # Enable or disable access token and permission verification
   ```

   > :warning: **Keep PLUGIN_GRPC_SERVER_AUTH_ENABLED=false for now**: It is currently not
   supported by `AccelByte Gaming Services`, but it will be enabled later on to improve security. If it is
   enabled, the gRPC server will reject any calls from gRPC clients without proper authorization
   metadata.

## Building

To build this sample app, use the following command.

```
make build
```

## Running

To (build and) run this sample app in a container, use the following command.

```
docker compose up --build
```

## Testing

### Test in Local Development Environment

The custom functions in this sample app can be tested locally using [postman](https://www.postman.com/).

1. Run this `gRPC server` sample app by using the command below.

   ```shell
   docker compose up --build
   ```

2. Open `postman`, create a new `gRPC request`, and enter `localhost:6565` as server URL (see tutorial [here](https://blog.postman.com/postman-now-supports-grpc/)). 

   > :warning: **If you are running [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app as mentioned in [Test Observability](#test-observability)**: Enter `localhost:10000` instead of `localhost:6565`. This way, the `gRPC server` will be called via `Envoy` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack instead of directly.

3. In `postman`, continue by selecting `Revocation/Revoke` method and invoke it with the sample message below.

   ```json
   {
       "revokeEntryType": "CURRENCY",
       "namespace": "test",
       "userId": "4423f033c38a40b9afdc8844e13647b7",
       "quantity": 1,
       "currency": {
           "namespace": "test",
           "currencyCode": "VCA",
           "balanceOrigin": "SYSTEM"
       }
   }
   ```

4. If successful, you will see receive responses like the following.

   ```json
   {
      "status": "SUCCESS",
      "customRevocation": [
         {
            "key": "namespace",
            "value": "test"
         },
         {
            "key": "userId",
            "value": "4423f033c38a40b9afdc8844e13647b7"
         },
         {
            "key": "quantity",
            "value": "1"
         },
         {
            "key": "currencyNamespace",
            "value": "test"
         },
         {
            "key": "currencyCode",
            "value": "VCA"
         },
         {
            "key": "balanceOrigin",
            "value": "SYSTEM"
         }
      ]
   }
   ```


### Test with AccelByte Gaming Services

For testing this sample app which is running locally with `AccelByte Gaming Services`,
the `gRPC server` needs to be exposed to the internet. To do this without requiring public IP, we can use something like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

1. Run this `gRPC server` sample app by using command below.

   ```shell
   docker compose up --build
   ```

2. Sign-in/sign-up to [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and get your auth token in `ngrok` dashboard.

3. In this sample app root directory, run the following helper command to expose `gRPC server` port in local development environment to the internet. Take a note of the `ngrok` forwarding URL e.g. `http://0.tcp.ap.ngrok.io:xxxxx`.

   ```
   make ngrok NGROK_AUTHTOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxx
   ```

   > :warning: **If you are running [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app as mentioned in [Test Observability](#test-observability)**: Run the above 
   command in `grpc-plugin-dependencies` directory instead of this sample app directory. 
   This way, the `gRPC server` will be called via `Envoy` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack instead of directly.

4. [Create an OAuth Client](https://docs.accelbyte.io/guides/access/iam-client.html) with `confidential` client type with the following permissions.  Keep the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`. This is different from the Oauth Client from the Prerequisites section and it is required by CLI demo app [here](demo/cli/) in the next step to register the `gRPC Server` URL.

   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:PLUGIN:REVOCATION [UPDATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:REVOCATION [UPDATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:USER:*:REVOCATION [UPDATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:STORE [READ, CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:CATEGORY [CREATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:ITEM [CREATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:CURRENCY [CREATE, DELETE]

   > :warning: **Oauth Client created in this step is different from the one from Prerequisites section:** It is required by CLI demo app [here](demo/cli/) in the next step to register the `gRPC Server` URL.

5. Create a user for testing. Keep the `Username` and `Password`.

6. In [demo/cli](demo/cli) folder, create an `.env` file by copying the content of [.env.template](demo/cli/.env.template) file and
set the required environment variables as shown below. 

   ```
   AB_BASE_URL='https://demo.accelbyte.io'
   AB_CLIENT_ID='xxxxxxxxxx'       # Use Client ID from the previous step
   AB_CLIENT_SECRET='xxxxxxxxxx'   # Use Client secret from the previous step
   AB_NAMESPACE='xxxxxxxxxx'       # Use your Namespace ID
   AB_USERNAME='xxxxxxxxxx'        # Use your Namespace Username
   AB_PASSWORD='xxxxxxxxxx'        # Use your Namespace Password
   GRPC_SERVER_URL='0.tcp.ap.ngrok.io:xxxxx'   # Use your ngrok forwarding URL without `https://`
   ```
   Run the [Makefile](demo/cli/Makefile) commands to execute the CLI demo app.

   ```
   $ cd demo/cli
   $ make run ENV_FILE_PATH=.env
   ```

> :warning: **Ngrok free plan has some limitations**: You may want to use paid plan if the traffic is high.

### Test Observability

To be able to see the how the observability works in this sample app locally, there are few things that need be setup before performing tests.

1. Uncomment loki logging driver in [docker-compose.yaml](docker-compose.yaml)

   ```
    # logging:
    #   driver: loki
    #   options:
    #     loki-url: http://host.docker.internal:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    #     mode: non-blocking
    #     max-buffer-size: 4m
    #     loki-retries: "3"
   ```

   > :warning: **Make sure to install docker loki plugin beforehand**: Otherwise,
   this sample app will not be able to run. This is required so that container logs
   can flow to the `loki` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack. 
   Use this command to install docker loki plugin: `docker plugin install grafana/loki-docker-driver:latest --alias loki --grant-all-permissions`.

2. Clone and run [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app. After this, Grafana 
will be accessible at http://localhost:3000.

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies.git
   cd grpc-plugin-dependencies
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > :exclamation: More information about [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) is available [here](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies/blob/main/README.md).

3. Perform testing. For example, by following [Test in Local Development Environment](#test-in-local-development-environment) or [Test with AccelByte Gaming Services](#test-with-accelbyte-gaming-services).

## Deploying

After done testing, you may want to deploy this app to `AccelByte Gaming Services`.

1. [Create a new Extend Override App on Admin Portal](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/services/extend/override-ags-feature/getting-started-with-matchmaking-customization/#create-an-extend-app). Keep the `Repository Url`.
2. Download and setup [extend-helper-cli](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/) (only if it has not been done previously).
3. Perform docker login using `extend-helper-cli` using the following command.
   ```
   extend-helper-cli dockerlogin --namespace my-game --app my-app --login
   ```
   > :exclamation: More information about [extend-helper-cli](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/) is available [here](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/blob/master/README.md).
4. Build and push sample app docker image to AccelByte ECR using the following command.
   ```
   make imagex_push REPO_URL=xxxxxxxxxx.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/accelbyte/justice/development/extend/xxxxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxxxx IMAGE_TAG=v0.0.1
   ```
   > :exclamation: **The REPO_URL is obtained from step 1**: It can be found under 'Repository Url' in the app detail.

Commit message:

fix(docs): add ags starter permission info in readme

README.md, after:

# revocation-grpc-plugin-server-go

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   subgraph AccelByte Gaming Services
   CL[gRPC Client]
   end
   subgraph Extend Override App
   SV["gRPC Server\n(you are here)"]
   end
   CL --- SV
```

`AccelByte Gaming Services`  features can be customized by using `Extend Override`
apps. An `Extend Override` app is essentially a `gRPC server` which contains one 
or more custom functions which can be called by `AccelByte Gaming Services` 
instead of the default functions. 

## Overview

This repository contains a sample `Extend Override` app for `revocation function`
written in `Go`. It provides a simple custom revocation function for platform 
service in `AccelByte Gaming Services`.

This sample app also shows the instrumentation setup necessary for observability. It
is required so that metrics, traces, and logs are able to flow properly when the 
app is deployed.

## Prerequisites

1. Windows 10 WSL2 or Linux Ubuntu 20.04 with the following tools installed.

   a. bash

   b. make

   c. docker v23.x

   d. go 1.19

   e. git

   f. [postman](https://www.postman.com/)

2. Access to `AccelByte Gaming Services` environment.

   a. Base URL
   
      - For `Starter` tier e.g.  https://spaceshooter.dev.gamingservices.accelbyte.io
      - For `Premium` tier e.g.  https://dev.accelbyte.io
      
   b. [Create a Game Namespace](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/tutorials/how-to/create-a-game-namespace/) if you don't have one yet. Keep the `Namespace ID`.

   c. [Create an OAuth Client](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/services/access/authorization/manage-access-control-for-applications/#create-an-iam-client) with confidential client type. Keep the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`.

## Setup

1. Create a docker compose `.env` file by copying the content of [.env.template](.env.template) file.

   > :warning: **The host OS environment variables have higher precedence compared to `.env` file variables**: If the variables in `.env` file do not seem to take effect properly, check if there are host OS environment variables with the same name. 
   See documentation about [docker compose environment variables precedence](https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/envvars-precedence/) for more details.

2. Fill in the required environment variables in `.env` file as shown below.

   ```
   AB_BASE_URL=https://demo.accelbyte.io     # Base URL of AccelByte Gaming Services environment
   AB_CLIENT_ID='xxxxxxxxxx'                 # Client ID from the Prerequisites section
   AB_CLIENT_SECRET='xxxxxxxxxx'             # Client Secret from the Prerequisites section
   AB_NAMESPACE='xxxxxxxxxx'                 # Namespace ID from the Prerequisites section
   PLUGIN_GRPC_SERVER_AUTH_ENABLED=false     # Enable or disable access token and permission verification
   ```

   > :warning: **Keep PLUGIN_GRPC_SERVER_AUTH_ENABLED=false for now**: It is currently not
   supported by `AccelByte Gaming Services`, but it will be enabled later on to improve security. If it is
   enabled, the gRPC server will reject any calls from gRPC clients without proper authorization
   metadata.

## Building

To build this sample app, use the following command.

```
make build
```

## Running

To (build and) run this sample app in a container, use the following command.

```
docker compose up --build
```

## Testing

### Test in Local Development Environment

The custom functions in this sample app can be tested locally using [postman](https://www.postman.com/).

1. Run this `gRPC server` sample app by using the command below.

   ```shell
   docker compose up --build
   ```

2. Open `postman`, create a new `gRPC request`, and enter `localhost:6565` as server URL (see tutorial [here](https://blog.postman.com/postman-now-supports-grpc/)). 

   > :warning: **If you are running [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app as mentioned in [Test Observability](#test-observability)**: Enter `localhost:10000` instead of `localhost:6565`. This way, the `gRPC server` will be called via `Envoy` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack instead of directly.

3. In `postman`, continue by selecting `Revocation/Revoke` method and invoke it with the sample message below.

   ```json
   {
       "revokeEntryType": "CURRENCY",
       "namespace": "test",
       "userId": "4423f033c38a40b9afdc8844e13647b7",
       "quantity": 1,
       "currency": {
           "namespace": "test",
           "currencyCode": "VCA",
           "balanceOrigin": "SYSTEM"
       }
   }
   ```

4. If successful, you will see receive responses like the following.

   ```json
   {
      "status": "SUCCESS",
      "customRevocation": [
         {
            "key": "namespace",
            "value": "test"
         },
         {
            "key": "userId",
            "value": "4423f033c38a40b9afdc8844e13647b7"
         },
         {
            "key": "quantity",
            "value": "1"
         },
         {
            "key": "currencyNamespace",
            "value": "test"
         },
         {
            "key": "currencyCode",
            "value": "VCA"
         },
         {
            "key": "balanceOrigin",
            "value": "SYSTEM"
         }
      ]
   }
   ```


### Test with AccelByte Gaming Services

For testing this sample app which is running locally with `AccelByte Gaming Services`,
the `gRPC server` needs to be exposed to the internet. To do this without requiring public IP, we can use something like [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/).

1. Run this `gRPC server` sample app by using command below.

   ```shell
   docker compose up --build
   ```

2. Sign-in/sign-up to [ngrok](https://ngrok.com/) and get your auth token in `ngrok` dashboard.

3. In this sample app root directory, run the following helper command to expose `gRPC server` port in local development environment to the internet. Take a note of the `ngrok` forwarding URL e.g. `http://0.tcp.ap.ngrok.io:xxxxx`.

   ```
   make ngrok NGROK_AUTHTOKEN=xxxxxxxxxxx
   ```

   > :warning: **If you are running [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app as mentioned in [Test Observability](#test-observability)**: Run the above 
   command in `grpc-plugin-dependencies` directory instead of this sample app directory. 
   This way, the `gRPC server` will be called via `Envoy` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack instead of directly.

4. [Create an OAuth Client](https://docs.accelbyte.io/guides/access/iam-client.html) with `confidential` client type with the following permissions.  Keep the `Client ID` and `Client Secret`. This is different from the Oauth Client from the Prerequisites section and it is required by CLI demo app [here](demo/cli/) in the next step to register the `gRPC Server` URL.
   > :exclamation: For AGS Starter customers, you don't need to add the permissions. All confidential IAM clients already contain the necessary permissions.
   
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:PLUGIN:REVOCATION [UPDATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:REVOCATION [UPDATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:USER:*:REVOCATION [UPDATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:STORE [READ, CREATE, UPDATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:CATEGORY [CREATE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:ITEM [CREATE, DELETE]
   - ADMIN:NAMESPACE:{namespace}:CURRENCY [CREATE, DELETE]

   > :warning: **Oauth Client created in this step is different from the one from Prerequisites section:** It is required by CLI demo app [here](demo/cli/) in the next step to register the `gRPC Server` URL.

5. Create a user for testing. Keep the `Username` and `Password`.

6. In [demo/cli](demo/cli) folder, create an `.env` file by copying the content of [.env.template](demo/cli/.env.template) file and
set the required environment variables as shown below. 

   ```
   AB_BASE_URL='https://demo.accelbyte.io'
   AB_CLIENT_ID='xxxxxxxxxx'       # Use Client ID from the previous step
   AB_CLIENT_SECRET='xxxxxxxxxx'   # Use Client secret from the previous step
   AB_NAMESPACE='xxxxxxxxxx'       # Use your Namespace ID
   AB_USERNAME='xxxxxxxxxx'        # Use your Namespace Username
   AB_PASSWORD='xxxxxxxxxx'        # Use your Namespace Password
   GRPC_SERVER_URL='0.tcp.ap.ngrok.io:xxxxx'   # Use your ngrok forwarding URL without `https://`
   ```
   Run the [Makefile](demo/cli/Makefile) commands to execute the CLI demo app.

   ```
   $ cd demo/cli
   $ make run ENV_FILE_PATH=.env
   ```

> :warning: **Ngrok free plan has some limitations**: You may want to use paid plan if the traffic is high.

### Test Observability

To be able to see the how the observability works in this sample app locally, there are few things that need be setup before performing tests.

1. Uncomment loki logging driver in [docker-compose.yaml](docker-compose.yaml)

   ```
    # logging:
    #   driver: loki
    #   options:
    #     loki-url: http://host.docker.internal:3100/loki/api/v1/push
    #     mode: non-blocking
    #     max-buffer-size: 4m
    #     loki-retries: "3"
   ```

   > :warning: **Make sure to install docker loki plugin beforehand**: Otherwise,
   this sample app will not be able to run. This is required so that container logs
   can flow to the `loki` service within `grpc-plugin-dependencies` stack. 
   Use this command to install docker loki plugin: `docker plugin install grafana/loki-docker-driver:latest --alias loki --grant-all-permissions`.

2. Clone and run [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) stack alongside this sample app. After this, Grafana 
will be accessible at http://localhost:3000.

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies.git
   cd grpc-plugin-dependencies
   docker-compose up
   ```

   > :exclamation: More information about [grpc-plugin-dependencies](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies) is available [here](https://github.com/AccelByte/grpc-plugin-dependencies/blob/main/README.md).

3. Perform testing. For example, by following [Test in Local Development Environment](#test-in-local-development-environment) or [Test with AccelByte Gaming Services](#test-with-accelbyte-gaming-services).

## Deploying

After done testing, you may want to deploy this app to `AccelByte Gaming Services`.

1. [Create a new Extend Override App on Admin Portal](https://docs.accelbyte.io/gaming-services/services/extend/override-ags-feature/getting-started-with-matchmaking-customization/#create-an-extend-app). Keep the `Repository Url`.
2. Download and setup [extend-helper-cli](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/) (only if it has not been done previously).
3. Perform docker login using `extend-helper-cli` using the following command.
   ```
   extend-helper-cli dockerlogin --namespace my-game --app my-app --login
   ```
   > :exclamation: More information about [extend-helper-cli](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/) is available [here](https://github.com/AccelByte/extend-helper-cli/blob/master/README.md).
4. Build and push sample app docker image to AccelByte ECR using the following command.
   ```
   make imagex_push REPO_URL=xxxxxxxxxx.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/accelbyte/justice/development/extend/xxxxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxxxx IMAGE_TAG=v0.0.1
   ```
   > :exclamation: **The REPO_URL is obtained from step 1**: It can be found under 'Repository Url' in the app detail.
